Add dependency injection docs (#4447)
firebase/firebase-android-sdk: contributor-docs/best_practices/dependency_injection.md

---
parent: Best Practices
---

# Dependency Injection

While [Firebase Components]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link components/components.md %}) provides basic
Dependency Injection capabilities for interop between Firebase SDKs, it's not ideal as a general purpose

> DI framework or a couple of reasons, to name a few:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DI framework for a few reasons, to name some:
```

* It's verbose, i.e. requires manually specifying dependencies and constructing instances of components in Component
  definitions.
* It has a runtime cost, i.e. initialization time is linear in the number of Components present in the graph

As a result using [Firebase Components]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link components/components.md %}) is appropriate only
for inter-SDK injection and scoping instances per `FirebaseApp`.

> On the other hand, manually instantiating SDKs is often tedious, errorprone, and often leads to code smells

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, manually instantiating SDKs is often tedious, errorprone, and leads to code smells
```

> that make code less testable and coulpes it to implementation rather than the interface. For more context see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that make code less testable and couples it to the implementation rather than the interface. For more context see
```

[Dependency Injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection) and  [Motivation](https://github.com/google/guice/wiki/Motivation).

{: .important }
It's recommended to use [Dagger](https://dagger.dev) for internal dependency injection within the SDKs and
[Components]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link components/components.md %}) to inject inter-sdk dependencies that are available only at
runtime into the [Dagger Graph](https://dagger.dev/dev-guide/#building-the-graph) via
[builder setters](https://dagger.dev/dev-guide/#binding-instances) or [factory arguments](https://dagger.dev/api/latest/dagger/Component.Factory.html).

See: [Dagger docs](https://dagger.dev)
See: [Dagger tutorial](https://dagger.dev/tutorial/)

{: .highlight }

> While Hilt is the recommended way to use dagger in Android `applications, it's not suitable for SDK/library development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While Hilt is the recommended way to use dagger in Android applications, it's not suitable for SDK/library development.
```

## How to get started

> Since [Dagger](https://dagger.dev) does not strictly follow semver and requires the dagger-compiler version to match with the dagger library version,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since [Dagger](https://dagger.dev) does not strictly follow semver and requires the dagger-compiler version to match the dagger library version,
```

it's not safe to depend on it via a pom level dependency, see [This comment](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-android-sdk/issues/1677#issuecomment-645669608) for context. For this reason in Firebase SDKs we "vendor/repackage" Dagger into the SDK itself under

> `com.google.firebase.{sdkname}.dagger`, while it incurs a size increase, it's usually on the order of a couple of KB and is considered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`com.google.firebase.{sdkname}.dagger`. While it incurs in a size increase, it's usually on the order of a couple of KB and is considered
```

    vendor(libs.dagger) {
        exclude group: "javax.inject", module: "javax.inject"
    }
    annotationProcessor(libs.dagger.compiler)
}
```

## General Dagger setup

As mentioned in [Firebase Components]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link components/components.md %}), all components are scoped per `FirebaseApp`
meaning there is a single instance of the component within a given `FirebaseApp`.

This makes it a natural fit to get all inter-sdk dependencies and instatiate the Dagger component inside the `ComponentRegistrar`.

```kotlin
class MyRegistrar : ComponentRegistrar {
  override fun getComponents() = listOf(
    Component.builder(MySdk::class.java)
      .add(Dependency.required(FirebaseOptions::class.java))
      .add(Dependency.optionalProvider(SomeInteropDep::class.java))
      .factory(c -> DaggerMySdkComponent.builder()
        .setFirebaseApp(c.get(FirebaseApp::class.java))
        .setSomeInterop(c.getProvider(SomeInteropDep::class.java))
        .build()
        .getMySdk())
      .build()
}
```

Here's a simple way to define the dagger component:

```kotlin
@Component(modules = MySdkComponent.MainModule::class)
@Singleton
interface MySdkComponent {

>   // Informs dagger that this is one of the type that we want to be able to create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Informs dagger that this is one of the types we want to be able to create
```

  // In this example we only care about MySdk
  fun getMySdk() : MySdk

  // Tells Dagger that some types are not available statically and in order to create the component
  // it needs FirebaseApp and Provider<SomeInteropDep>
  @Component.Builder
  interface Builder {
    @BindsInstance fun setFirebaseApp(app: FirebaseApp)
    @BindsInstance fun setSomeInterop(interop: com.google.firebase.inject.Provider<SomeInteropDep>)
    fun build() : MySdkComponent
  }

  @Module
  interface MainModule {
    // define module @Provides and @Binds here
  }
}
```

The only thing left to do is to properly annotate `MySdk`:

```kotlin
@Singleton
class MySdk @Inject constructor(app: FirebaseApp, interopAdapter: MySdkAdapter) {
    fun someMethod() {
        interopAdapter.doInterop()
    }
}

@Singleton
class MySdkInteropAdapter @Inject constructor(private val interop: com.google.firebase.inject.Provider<SomeInteropDep>) {
    fun doInterop() {
        interop.get().doStuff()
    }
}
```

## Scope

> Unline Component, Dagger does not use singleton scope by default and instead injects a new instance of a type at each injection point,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike Component, Dagger does not use singleton scope by default and instead injects a new instance of a type at each injection point,
```
